


scsi_target(3)         Transtech SCSI TRAM         scsi_target(3)



NAME
     scsi_target - Initialise SCSI target driver

SYNOPSIS
     #include <scsi.h>

     int scsi_target( int (*callback)( struct scsi_target *target ) );

DESCRIPTION
     Registers a target driver  callback  function  allowing  the
     SCSI TRAM function in target mode.

     Although there can be many commands in progress from various
     initiators   using  various  target  logical  units,  it  is
     guaranteed that only one process can call the  target  call-
     back  function  at  a time unless the user explicitly allows
     this by calling scsi_unlock.  This would  normally  only  be
     done after a disconnect and scsi_lock would be used prior to
     reselection.

PARAMETERS
     callback
          Pointer to a callback function which performs the  dev-
          ice specific target functions.

     The elements of the  scsi_target  structure,  a  pointer  to
     which  is the sole argument to the target callback function,
     are:

     nexus
          The initiator id, the target id and the target  logical
          unit number (lun).

     initiator_device
          Pointer to the device structure for the initiator.

     lun  The actual logical unit number  of  the  target  device
          selected.   In the current implementation this normally
          has the same value as the lun field  of  the  structure
          pointed to by nexus.  If the target is selected without
          the ATN signal asserted (and hence not followed  by  an
          IDENTIFY  message), then the lun field of the structure
          pointed   to   by   nexus   is   set   to   the   value
          SCSI_UNKNOWN_LUN  and the actual logical unit number is
          determined from the command descriptor block cdb.

     cdb  Command descriptor block received from the initiator.

     data Pointer to data transferred to or from  the  initiator.
          This  parameter  must  point  to memory allocated using
          scsi_malloc.




Release 1.0         Last change: 25 Mar 1993                    1






scsi_target(3)         Transtech SCSI TRAM         scsi_target(3)



     data_len
          Length of data.

     status
          Status of current or last completed command.

     sense_pending
          Flag to specify that sense data is  pending.   Normally
          this  indicates  that this nexus is in a UNIT ATTENTION
          condition.

     sense
          SCSI 2 sense record.  Used to record sense data between
          commands performed with this nexus.

     reason
          Reason why the target callback function was invoked.

     callback
          Pointer to target driver callback function.

     flags
          Indicates if  the  target  logical  unit  was  selected
          without ATN asserted and if disconnects are disabled.

     There is one target structure  allocated  using  scsi_malloc
     per possible nexus.

     The SCSI system calls the function pointed  to  by  callback
     when  it  requires  it  to  perform  some  action e.g. after
     receiving a command descriptor block.  It  sets  the  reason
     field to a value defined in scsi.h and listed below to indi-
     cate the reason why the function is  called.   The  callback
     function  should  return  a  value to indicate the action it
     requires the SCSI system to perform as described below.

     The possible values of the reason  field  and  the  possible
     return values of the user's callback function are:

     STARG_COMPLETE
          This value is returned  by  the  callback  function  to
          indicate  that the SCSI command has completed.  Set the
          status field with the appropriate SCSI status value.

     STARG_COMMAND
          This value of reason indicates that a command  descrip-
          tor block has been received.  This is stored in the cdb
          array.

     STARG_DATA_IN
          This value is returned  by  the  callback  function  to
          indicate that data_len bytes of data pointed to by data



Release 1.0         Last change: 25 Mar 1993                    2






scsi_target(3)         Transtech SCSI TRAM         scsi_target(3)



          are to be transferred from the target to the initiator.
          When  the  SCSI  system  has completed this succesfully
          then the callback function is called with this value of
          reason.

     STARG_DATA_OUT
          This value is returned  by  the  callback  function  to
          indicate that data_len bytes of data pointed to by data
          are to be transferred from the initiator to the target.
          When  the  SCSI  system  has completed this succesfully
          then the callback function is called with this value of
          reason.

     STARG_SAVE_AND_DISCONNECT
          This return value causes a  SAVE  DATA  POINTER  and  a
          DISCONNECT  message  to  be sent to the initiator.  The
          SCSI system then disconnects  from  the  SCSI  bus  and
          calls callback with reason set to STARG_DISCONNECT.

     STARG_DISCONNECT
          This return value causes a  DISCONNECT  message  to  be
          sent  to  the  initiator.  The SCSI system then discon-
          nects from the SCSI bus and calls callback with  reason
          set to this value.

     STARG_RESELECT
          This return value is  used  to  reselect  an  initiator
          after  a disconnect to resume the current SCSI command.
          When reselection has occured then  callback  is  called
          with reason set to this value.

     STARG_RESTART
          This return value is used if an abort or  reset  condi-
          tion  is  detected  after  a  disconnnect  but before a
          reselect.

     STARG_ABORT
          This value of reason indicates that the  initiator  has
          sent  an  ABORT message to the target.  The outstanding
          command (if any) should then be aborted for  the  indi-
          cated nexus.  Return STARG_ABORT when this occurs.

     SCSI_RESET
          This value of reason indicates that either a  SCSI  bus
          reset  has  been  detected  or  that  this  device  has
          received a BUS DEVICE RESET message.  Return SCSI_RESET
          when  this  occurs.  Note that a single reset can cause
          callback to be called multiple times with this value of
          reason.

     SCSI_NOT_OK
          Return this value when all else fails.  This causes the



Release 1.0         Last change: 25 Mar 1993                    3






scsi_target(3)         Transtech SCSI TRAM         scsi_target(3)



          SCSI system to assert the SCSI reset signal.

RETURN VALUE
     This function never returns on success, it returns  a  nega-
     tive integer on error.


















































Release 1.0         Last change: 25 Mar 1993                    4



